.TH "IXPMSG" 3 "2010 Jun" "libixp Manual"

.SH NAME
.P
IxpMsg, IxpMsgMode, ixp_message

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
  #include <ixp.h>
  
  typedef struct IxpMsg IxpMsg;
  struct IxpMsg {
          char*   data; /* Begining of buffer. */
          char*   pos;  /* Current position in buffer. */
          char*   end;  /* End of message. */ 
          uint    size; /* Size of buffer. */
          uint    mode; /* MsgPack or MsgUnpack. */
  }
  
  enum IxpMsgMode {
          MsgPack,
          MsgUnpack,
  }
  
  IxpMsg ixp_message(char *data, uint length, uint mode);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The IxpMsg struct represents a binary message, and is used
extensively by libixp for converting messages to and from
wire format. The location and size of a buffer are stored in
IdataR and IsizeR, respectively. IposR points to the
location in the message currently being packed or unpacked,
while IendR points to the end of the message. The packing
functions advance IposR as they go, always ensuring that
they don't read or write past IendR.  When a message is
entirely packed or unpacked, IposR whould be less than or
equal to IendR. Any other state indicates error.

.P
ixp_message is a convenience function to pack a construct an
IxpMsg from a buffer of a given IlengthR and a given
ImodeR. IposR and IdataR are set to IdataR and IendR is
set to IdataR + IlengthR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.P
ixp_pu8(3), ixp_pu16(3), ixp_pu32(3), ixp_pu64(3),
ixp_pstring(3), ixp_pstrings(3)


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.5 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -o- IxpMsg.man3

